docs/pages/docs/getting-started/middleware.mdx, before:

# Authentication Middleware

Basic usage of `authMiddleware` in `middleware.ts`

```tsx filename="middleware.ts"
import { NextRequest, NextResponse } from "next/server";
import { authMiddleware } from "next-firebase-auth-edge";

export async function middleware(request: NextRequest) {
  return authMiddleware(request, {
    loginPath: "/api/login",
    logoutPath: "/api/logout",
    apiKey: "XXxxXxXXXxXxxxxx_XxxxXxxxxxXxxxXXXxxXxX",
    cookieName: "AuthToken",
    cookieSignatureKeys: ["secret1", "secret2"],
    cookieSerializeOptions: {
      path: "/",
      httpOnly: true,
      secure: false, // Set this to true on HTTPS environments
      sameSite: "lax" as const,
      maxAge: 12 * 60 * 60 * 24, // twelve days
    },
    serviceAccount: {
      projectId: "your-firebase-project-id",
      clientEmail: "firebase-adminsdk-nnw48@your-firebase-project-id.iam.gserviceaccount.com",
      privateKey: "-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----\n...\n-----END PRIVATE KEY-----\n",
    },
  });
}

export const config = {
  matcher: ["/api/login", "/api/logout", "/", "/((?!_next|favicon.ico|api|.*\\.).*)"],
};
```

Commit message:

feat(docs): getting started section alpha

docs/pages/docs/getting-started/middleware.mdx, after:

# Authentication Middleware

`authMiddleware` servers a number of functions:

1. It sets up `/api/login` and `/api/logout` endpoints to allow the client to manage browser authentication cookies. Please note that you don't have to setup dedicated api routes youself, as middleware does it for you. You can change the name of those endpoints by changing `loginPath` and `logoutPath` middleware options.
2. Automatically refreshes browser authentication cookies when token expires
3. Allows to customize routing behaviour by defining `handleValidToken`, `handleInvalidToken` and `handleError` callbacks. [See authMiddleware docs](http://not-yet-defined)

Basic usage of `authMiddleware` in `middleware.ts`:

```tsx filename="middleware.ts"
import { NextRequest, NextResponse } from "next/server";
import { authMiddleware } from "next-firebase-auth-edge";

export async function middleware(request: NextRequest) {
  return authMiddleware(request, {
    loginPath: "/api/login",
    logoutPath: "/api/logout",
    apiKey: "XXxxXxXXXxXxxxxx_XxxxXxxxxxXxxxXXXxxXxX",
    cookieName: "AuthToken",
    cookieSignatureKeys: ["secret1", "secret2"],
    cookieSerializeOptions: {
      path: "/",
      httpOnly: true,
      secure: false, // Set this to true on HTTPS environments
      sameSite: "lax" as const,
      maxAge: 12 * 60 * 60 * 24, // twelve days
    },
    serviceAccount: {
      projectId: "your-firebase-project-id",
      clientEmail: "firebase-adminsdk-nnw48@your-firebase-project-id.iam.gserviceaccount.com",
      privateKey: "-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----\n...\n-----END PRIVATE KEY-----\n",
    },
  });
}

export const config = {
  matcher: ["/api/login", "/api/logout", "/", "/((?!_next|favicon.ico|api|.*\\.).*)"],
};
```
