examples-v2/next13-typescript-advanced/README.md, before:

# next-firebase-auth-edge advanced example

This is a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) project showcasing `next-firebase-auth-edge` library features.

Demo of this project can be previewed at [next-firebase-auth-edge-static-demo.vercel.app](https://next-firebase-auth-edge-static-demo.vercel.app/) 

## Before Getting Started

To properly run this example, you will need to setup a new Firebase Project.

You will also need to:
- Create a new web app in your new Firebase Project.
- Add Firebase Auth to your project, and add both Google and Anonymous sign-in providers
- Add a Firestore database
- Get your private keys from "Project settings > Service Accounts > Generate new private keys"
- Make a copy of `.env.dist` and rename it to `.env.local`
- Fill in the variables inside the `.env.local`


First, run the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

You can start editing the page by modifying `app/page.tsx`. The page auto-updates as you edit the file.

[API routes](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-routes/introduction) can be accessed on [http://localhost:3000/api/hello](http://localhost:3000/api/hello). This endpoint can be edited in `pages/api/hello.ts`.

The `pages/api` directory is mapped to `/api/*`. Files in this directory are treated as [API routes](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-routes/introduction) instead of React pages.

## Learn More

To learn more about Next.js, take a look at the following resources:

- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs) - learn about Next.js features and API.
- [Learn Next.js](https://nextjs.org/learn) - an interactive Next.js tutorial.

You can check out [the Next.js GitHub repository](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/) - your feedback and contributions are welcome!

## Deploy on Vercel

The easiest way to deploy your Next.js app is to use the [Vercel Platform](https://vercel.com/new?utm_medium=default-template&filter=next.js&utm_source=create-next-app&utm_campaign=create-next-app-readme) from the creators of Next.js.

Check out our [Next.js deployment documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/deployment) for more details.

Commit message:

chore(rework-examples): integrate firebase emulator in advanced example

examples-v2/next13-typescript-advanced/README.md, after:

# next-firebase-auth-edge advanced example

This is a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) project showcasing `next-firebase-auth-edge` library features.

Demo of this project can be previewed at [next-firebase-auth-edge-static-demo.vercel.app](https://next-firebase-auth-edge-static-demo.vercel.app/) 

## Before Getting Started

To properly run this example, you will need to setup a new Firebase Project.

You will also need to:
- Create a new web app in your new Firebase Project.
- Add Firebase Auth to your project, and add both Google and Anonymous sign-in providers
- Add a Firestore database
- Get your private keys from "Project settings > Service Accounts > Generate new private keys"
- Make a copy of `.env.dist` and rename it to `.env.local`
- Fill in the variables inside the `.env.local`


First, run the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

## Emulator support

Library provides Firebase Authentication Emulator support

Use [the official guide](https://firebase.google.com/docs/functions/local-emulator) to run the emulator locally.

In order to connect the example with emulator add two env variables to your `.env.local` file (you can copy them from `.env.dist`).

```shell
NEXT_PUBLIC_EMULATOR_HOST=http://127.0.0.1:9099
FIREBASE_AUTH_EMULATOR_HOST=127.0.0.1:9099
```

`FIREBASE_AUTH_EMULATOR_HOST` is used internally by the library
`NEXT_PUBLIC_EMULATOR_HOST` is used only by provided example

Please note that even in emulator mode, library needs actual service account credentials to sign tokens with x509 certificate fetched from Google, a step that does not currently support emulation. Make sure to provide valid service account credentials even if using emulator.

Also, don't forget to put correct Firebase Project ID in `.firebaserc` file.

## Learn More

To learn more about Next.js, take a look at the following resources:

- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs) - learn about Next.js features and API.
- [Learn Next.js](https://nextjs.org/learn) - an interactive Next.js tutorial.

You can check out [the Next.js GitHub repository](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/) - your feedback and contributions are welcome!

## Deploy on Vercel

The easiest way to deploy your Next.js app is to use the [Vercel Platform](https://vercel.com/new?utm_medium=default-template&filter=next.js&utm_source=create-next-app&utm_campaign=create-next-app-readme) from the creators of Next.js.

Check out our [Next.js deployment documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/deployment) for more details.
