docs/pages/docs/usage/firebase-hosting.mdx, before:

# Usage in Firebase Hosting environment

Firebase Hosting environment by default strips all cookies other than `__session` (See https://stackoverflow.com/questions/44929653/firebase-cloud-function-wont-store-cookie-named-other-than-session)

To enable `next-firebase-auth-edge` in Firebase Hosting, you need to provide custom `cookieName` with the value of `__session`, as in below examples:

```tsx filename="middleware.ts"
import { NextRequest, NextResponse } from "next/server";
import { authMiddleware } from "next-firebase-auth-edge";

export async function middleware(request: NextRequest) {
  return authMiddleware(request, {
    cookieName: "__session", // This needs to be "__session" to work inside Firebase Hosting

    loginPath: "/api/login",
    logoutPath: "/api/logout",
    apiKey: "XXxxXxXXXxXxxxxx_XxxxXxxxxxXxxxXXXxxXxX",
    cookieSignatureKeys: ["secret1", "secret2"],
    cookieSerializeOptions: {
      path: "/",
      httpOnly: true,
      secure: false,
      sameSite: "lax" as const,
      maxAge: 12 * 60 * 60 * 24,
    },
    serviceAccount: {
      projectId: "your-firebase-project-id",
      clientEmail: "firebase-adminsdk-nnw48@your-firebase-project-id.iam.gserviceaccount.com",
      privateKey: "-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----\n...\n-----END PRIVATE KEY-----\n",
    },
  });
}

export const config = {
  matcher: ["/api/login", "/api/logout", "/", "/((?!_next|favicon.ico|api|.*\\.).*)"],
};
```

Example [getTokens](/docs/usage/server-components) usage:

```tsx
import { getTokens } from "next-firebase-auth-edge";

const tokens = await getTokens(context.req.cookies, {
  apiKey: 'XXxxXxXXXxXxxxxx_XxxxXxxxxxXxxxXXXxxXxX',
  cookieName: '__session',
  cookieSignatureKeys: ['secret1', 'secret2'],
  serviceAccount: {
    projectId: "your-firebase-project-id",
    clientEmail: "firebase-adminsdk-nnw48@your-firebase-project-id.iam.gserviceaccount.com",
    privateKey: "-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----\n...\n-----END PRIVATE KEY-----\n",
  },
});
```

Commit message:

chore(docs): update cookieSignatureKeys examples with recommended key length

docs/pages/docs/usage/firebase-hosting.mdx, after:

# Usage in Firebase Hosting environment

Firebase Hosting environment by default strips all cookies other than `__session` (See https://stackoverflow.com/questions/44929653/firebase-cloud-function-wont-store-cookie-named-other-than-session)

To enable `next-firebase-auth-edge` in Firebase Hosting, you need to provide custom `cookieName` with the value of `__session`, as in below examples:

```tsx filename="middleware.ts"
import { NextRequest, NextResponse } from "next/server";
import { authMiddleware } from "next-firebase-auth-edge";

export async function middleware(request: NextRequest) {
  return authMiddleware(request, {
    cookieName: "__session", // This needs to be "__session" to work inside Firebase Hosting

    loginPath: "/api/login",
    logoutPath: "/api/logout",
    apiKey: "XXxxXxXXXxXxxxxx_XxxxXxxxxxXxxxXXXxxXxX",
    cookieSignatureKeys: ["Key-Should-Be-at-least-32-bytes-in-length"],
    cookieSerializeOptions: {
      path: "/",
      httpOnly: true,
      secure: false,
      sameSite: "lax" as const,
      maxAge: 12 * 60 * 60 * 24,
    },
    serviceAccount: {
      projectId: "your-firebase-project-id",
      clientEmail: "firebase-adminsdk-nnw48@your-firebase-project-id.iam.gserviceaccount.com",
      privateKey: "-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----\n...\n-----END PRIVATE KEY-----\n",
    },
  });
}

export const config = {
  matcher: ["/api/login", "/api/logout", "/", "/((?!_next|favicon.ico|api|.*\\.).*)"],
};
```

Example [getTokens](/docs/usage/server-components) usage:

```tsx
import { getTokens } from "next-firebase-auth-edge";

const tokens = await getTokens(context.req.cookies, {
  apiKey: 'XXxxXxXXXxXxxxxx_XxxxXxxxxxXxxxXXXxxXxX',
  cookieName: '__session',
  cookieSignatureKeys: ['Key-Should-Be-at-least-32-bytes-in-length'],
  serviceAccount: {
    projectId: "your-firebase-project-id",
    clientEmail: "firebase-adminsdk-nnw48@your-firebase-project-id.iam.gserviceaccount.com",
    privateKey: "-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----\n...\n-----END PRIVATE KEY-----\n",
  },
});
```
