docs/pages/docs/usage/middleware.mdx, before:

# Authentication Middleware

`authMiddleware` works together with [getTokens](/docs/usage/server-components) function to share valid user credentials between [Next.js Middleware](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/middleware) and [Server Components](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/server-components).

## Features

1. It sets up `/api/login` and `/api/logout` endpoints to allow the client to manage browser authentication cookies. Please note that you don't have to setup dedicated api routes youself, as middleware does it for you. You can change the name of those endpoints by changing `loginPath` and `logoutPath` middleware options
2. Automatically refreshes browser authentication cookies when token expires, and let's developer act accordingly
3. Signs user cookies with rotating keys to mitigate the risk of cryptanalysis attacks
4. Validates user cookies on each request
5. Allows to customize behaviour by defining `handleValidToken`, `handleInvalidToken` and `handleError` callbacks

## Advanced usage

Advanced usage of `authMiddleware` in `middleware.ts`, based on [starter example](/examples#starter):

```tsx filename="middleware.ts"
import { NextRequest, NextResponse } from "next/server";
import { authMiddleware, redirectToHome, redirectToLogin } from "next-firebase-auth-edge";

const PUBLIC_PATHS = ["/register", "/login", "/reset-password"];

export async function middleware(request: NextRequest) {
  return authMiddleware(request, {
    loginPath: "/api/login",
    logoutPath: "/api/logout",
    apiKey: "XXxxXxXXXxXxxxxx_XxxxXxxxxxXxxxXXXxxXxX",
    cookieName: "AuthToken",
    cookieSignatureKeys: ["secret1", "secret2"],
    cookieSerializeOptions: {
      path: "/",
      httpOnly: true,
      secure: false, // Set this to true on HTTPS environments
      sameSite: "lax" as const,
      maxAge: 12 * 60 * 60 * 24, // twelve days
    },
    serviceAccount: {
      projectId: "your-firebase-project-id",
      clientEmail: "firebase-adminsdk-nnw48@your-firebase-project-id.iam.gserviceaccount.com",
      privateKey: "-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----\n...\n-----END PRIVATE KEY-----\n",
    },
    debug: true,
    tenantId: "your-tenant-id",
    checkRevoked: true,
    handleValidToken: async ({ token, decodedToken }, headers) => {
      // Authenticated user should not be able to access /login, /register and /reset-password routes
      if (PUBLIC_PATHS.includes(request.nextUrl.pathname)) {
        return redirectToHome(request);
      }

      return NextResponse.next({
        request: {
          headers,
        },
      });
    },
    handleInvalidToken: async (reason) => {
      console.info('Missing or malformed credentials', {reason});

      return redirectToLogin(request, {
        path: "/login",
        publicPaths: PUBLIC_PATHS,
      });
    },
    handleError: async (error) => {
      console.error("Unhandled authentication error", { error });

      return redirectToLogin(request, {
        path: "/login",
        publicPaths: PUBLIC_PATHS,
      });
    },
  });
}

export const config = {
  matcher: ["/api/login", "/api/logout", "/", "/((?!_next|favicon.ico|api|.*\\.).*)"],
};
```


## Middleware token verification caching

Since v0.9.0 `handleValidToken` is called with modified request `headers` as a second parameter.

You can pass this object to `NextResponse.next({ request: { headers } })` to enable token verification caching.

See [Modifying Request Headers in Middleware](https://vercel.com/templates/next.js/edge-functions-modify-request-header) for more information on how modified headers work

```tsx
handleValidToken: async ({ token, decodedToken }, headers) => {
  return NextResponse.next({
    request: {
      headers, // Pass modified request headers to skip token verification in subsequent getTokens and getApiRequestTokens calls
    },
  });
};
```

## Usage with `next-intl` and other middlewares

```tsx
import { NextRequest } from "next/server";
import createIntlMiddleware from "next-intl/middleware";
import { authMiddleware } from "next-firebase-auth-edge";

const intlMiddleware = createIntlMiddleware({
  locales: ["en", "pl"],
  defaultLocale: "en",
});

export async function middleware(request: NextRequest) {
  return authMiddleware(request, {
    // ...
    handleValidToken: async (tokens) => {
      return intlMiddleware(request);
    },
    handleInvalidToken: async (reason) => {
      return intlMiddleware(request);
    },
    handleError: async (error) => {
      return intlMiddleware(request);
    },
  });
}
```

**Please note** that you don't need to pass `headers` as in [middleware token verification caching](https://next-firebase-auth-edge-docs.vercel.app/docs/usage/middleware#middleware-token-verification-caching) when using `next-intl` middleware. `request` is already updated with modified headers by the time we call `intlMiddleware`. `next-intl` will pass modified headers for us.

## Options

| Name                   |   |   | Description                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| ---------------------- | -- | -- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| loginPath              | **Required** |   |  Defines API login endpoint. When called with auth firebase token from the client (see examples below), responds with `Set-Cookie` headers containing signed id and refresh tokens.               |
| logoutPath             | **Required** |   |  Defines API logout endpoint. When called from the client (see examples below), returns empty `Set-Cookie` headers that remove previously set credentials                                         |
| apiKey                 | **Required** |   |  Firebase project API key used to fetch firebase id and refresh tokens                                                                                                                            |
| cookieName             | **Required** |   |  The name for cookie set by `loginPath` api route.                                                                                                                                                |
| cookieSignatureKeys    | **Required** |   |  [Rotating keys](https://developer.okta.com/docs/concepts/key-rotation/#:~:text=Key%20rotation%20is%20when%20a,and%20follows%20cryptographic%20best%20practices.) the cookie is validated against |
| cookieSerializeOptions | **Required** |   |  Defines additional cookie options sent along `Set-Cookie` headers                                                                                                                                |
| serviceAccount         | Optional in authenticated [Google Cloud Run](https://cloud.google.com/run) environment. Otherwise **required** |   | Firebase project service account.                                                                                                                                                             |
| tenantId           | Optional | `string` By default `undefined`                                                                                                                 | Google Cloud Platform tenant identifier. Specify if your project supports [multi-tenancy](https://cloud.google.com/identity-platform/docs/multi-tenancy-authentication)                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| checkRevoked       | Optional | `boolean` By default `false`                                                                                                                    | If true, validates the token against firebase server on each request. Unless you have a good reason, it's better not to use it.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| handleValidToken   | Optional | `(tokens: { token: string, decodedToken: DecodedIdToken }, headers: Headers) => Promise<NextResponse>` By default returns `NextResponse.next()` | Receives id and decoded tokens and should return a promise that resolves with NextResponse. Function is called with modified request `headers` as a second parameter. By passing this parameters down to `NextResponse.next({ request: { headers } })` library won't verify the token in subsequent calls to `getTokens` or `getApiRequestTokens`, which can improve response times. |
| handleInvalidToken | Optional | `(reason: InvalidTokenReason) => Promise<NextResponse>` By default returns `NextResponse.next()`                                                                          | If passed, is called and returned if request has not been authenticated (either does not have credentials attached or credentials are malformed). Can be used to redirect unauthenticated users to specific page or pages. Called with `reason` as first argument, which can be one of `MISSING_CREDENTIALS`, `MISSING_REFRESH_TOKEN`, `MALFORMED_CREDENTIALS`, `INVALID_SIGNATURE`, `INVALID_CREDENTIALS`.  See [handleInvalidToken](/docs/errors#handleinvalidtoken) to read description of each reason.                                                                                                                                        |
| handleError        | Optional | `(error: AuthError) => Promise<NextResponse>` By default returns `NextResponse.next()`                                                          | Receives an unhandled error that happened during authentication and should resolve with NextResponse. By default, in case of unhandled error during authentication, the library just allows application to render. This allows you to customize error handling. See [handleError](/docs/errors#handleerror) to read about possible errors |
| debug           | Optional | `boolean` By default `false`                                                                                                                 | Provides helpful logs than can help understand authentication flow and debug issues |

Commit message:

chore(docs): update cookieSignatureKeys examples with recommended key length

docs/pages/docs/usage/middleware.mdx, after:

# Authentication Middleware

`authMiddleware` works together with [getTokens](/docs/usage/server-components) function to share valid user credentials between [Next.js Middleware](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/middleware) and [Server Components](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/server-components).

## Features

1. It sets up `/api/login` and `/api/logout` endpoints to allow the client to manage browser authentication cookies. Please note that you don't have to setup dedicated api routes youself, as middleware does it for you. You can change the name of those endpoints by changing `loginPath` and `logoutPath` middleware options
2. Automatically refreshes browser authentication cookies when token expires, and let's developer act accordingly
3. Signs user cookies with rotating keys to mitigate the risk of cryptanalysis attacks
4. Validates user cookies on each request
5. Allows to customize behaviour by defining `handleValidToken`, `handleInvalidToken` and `handleError` callbacks

## Advanced usage

Advanced usage of `authMiddleware` in `middleware.ts`, based on [starter example](/examples#starter):

```tsx filename="middleware.ts"
import { NextRequest, NextResponse } from "next/server";
import { authMiddleware, redirectToHome, redirectToLogin } from "next-firebase-auth-edge";

const PUBLIC_PATHS = ["/register", "/login", "/reset-password"];

export async function middleware(request: NextRequest) {
  return authMiddleware(request, {
    loginPath: "/api/login",
    logoutPath: "/api/logout",
    apiKey: "XXxxXxXXXxXxxxxx_XxxxXxxxxxXxxxXXXxxXxX",
    cookieName: "AuthToken",
    cookieSignatureKeys: ["Key-Should-Be-at-least-32-bytes-in-length"],
    cookieSerializeOptions: {
      path: "/",
      httpOnly: true,
      secure: false, // Set this to true on HTTPS environments
      sameSite: "lax" as const,
      maxAge: 12 * 60 * 60 * 24, // twelve days
    },
    serviceAccount: {
      projectId: "your-firebase-project-id",
      clientEmail: "firebase-adminsdk-nnw48@your-firebase-project-id.iam.gserviceaccount.com",
      privateKey: "-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----\n...\n-----END PRIVATE KEY-----\n",
    },
    debug: true,
    tenantId: "your-tenant-id",
    checkRevoked: true,
    handleValidToken: async ({ token, decodedToken }, headers) => {
      // Authenticated user should not be able to access /login, /register and /reset-password routes
      if (PUBLIC_PATHS.includes(request.nextUrl.pathname)) {
        return redirectToHome(request);
      }

      return NextResponse.next({
        request: {
          headers,
        },
      });
    },
    handleInvalidToken: async (reason) => {
      console.info('Missing or malformed credentials', {reason});

      return redirectToLogin(request, {
        path: "/login",
        publicPaths: PUBLIC_PATHS,
      });
    },
    handleError: async (error) => {
      console.error("Unhandled authentication error", { error });

      return redirectToLogin(request, {
        path: "/login",
        publicPaths: PUBLIC_PATHS,
      });
    },
  });
}

export const config = {
  matcher: ["/api/login", "/api/logout", "/", "/((?!_next|favicon.ico|api|.*\\.).*)"],
};
```


## Middleware token verification caching

Since v0.9.0 `handleValidToken` is called with modified request `headers` as a second parameter.

You can pass this object to `NextResponse.next({ request: { headers } })` to enable token verification caching.

See [Modifying Request Headers in Middleware](https://vercel.com/templates/next.js/edge-functions-modify-request-header) for more information on how modified headers work

```tsx
handleValidToken: async ({ token, decodedToken }, headers) => {
  return NextResponse.next({
    request: {
      headers, // Pass modified request headers to skip token verification in subsequent getTokens and getApiRequestTokens calls
    },
  });
};
```

## Usage with `next-intl` and other middlewares

```tsx
import { NextRequest } from "next/server";
import createIntlMiddleware from "next-intl/middleware";
import { authMiddleware } from "next-firebase-auth-edge";

const intlMiddleware = createIntlMiddleware({
  locales: ["en", "pl"],
  defaultLocale: "en",
});

export async function middleware(request: NextRequest) {
  return authMiddleware(request, {
    // ...
    handleValidToken: async (tokens) => {
      return intlMiddleware(request);
    },
    handleInvalidToken: async (reason) => {
      return intlMiddleware(request);
    },
    handleError: async (error) => {
      return intlMiddleware(request);
    },
  });
}
```

**Please note** that you don't need to pass `headers` as in [middleware token verification caching](https://next-firebase-auth-edge-docs.vercel.app/docs/usage/middleware#middleware-token-verification-caching) when using `next-intl` middleware. `request` is already updated with modified headers by the time we call `intlMiddleware`. `next-intl` will pass modified headers for us.

## Options

| Name                   |   |   | Description                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| ---------------------- | -- | -- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| loginPath              | **Required** |   |  Defines API login endpoint. When called with auth firebase token from the client (see examples below), responds with `Set-Cookie` headers containing signed id and refresh tokens.               |
| logoutPath             | **Required** |   |  Defines API logout endpoint. When called from the client (see examples below), returns empty `Set-Cookie` headers that remove previously set credentials                                         |
| apiKey                 | **Required** |   |  Firebase project API key used to fetch firebase id and refresh tokens                                                                                                                            |
| cookieName             | **Required** |   |  The name for cookie set by `loginPath` api route.                                                                                                                                                |
| cookieSignatureKeys    | **Required** |   |  [Rotating keys](https://developer.okta.com/docs/concepts/key-rotation/#:~:text=Key%20rotation%20is%20when%20a,and%20follows%20cryptographic%20best%20practices.) the cookie is validated against |
| cookieSerializeOptions | **Required** |   |  Defines additional cookie options sent along `Set-Cookie` headers                                                                                                                                |
| serviceAccount         | Optional in authenticated [Google Cloud Run](https://cloud.google.com/run) environment. Otherwise **required** |   | Firebase project service account.                                                                                                                                                             |
| tenantId           | Optional | `string` By default `undefined`                                                                                                                 | Google Cloud Platform tenant identifier. Specify if your project supports [multi-tenancy](https://cloud.google.com/identity-platform/docs/multi-tenancy-authentication)                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| checkRevoked       | Optional | `boolean` By default `false`                                                                                                                    | If true, validates the token against firebase server on each request. Unless you have a good reason, it's better not to use it.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| handleValidToken   | Optional | `(tokens: { token: string, decodedToken: DecodedIdToken }, headers: Headers) => Promise<NextResponse>` By default returns `NextResponse.next()` | Receives id and decoded tokens and should return a promise that resolves with NextResponse. Function is called with modified request `headers` as a second parameter. By passing this parameters down to `NextResponse.next({ request: { headers } })` library won't verify the token in subsequent calls to `getTokens` or `getApiRequestTokens`, which can improve response times. |
| handleInvalidToken | Optional | `(reason: InvalidTokenReason) => Promise<NextResponse>` By default returns `NextResponse.next()`                                                                          | If passed, is called and returned if request has not been authenticated (either does not have credentials attached or credentials are malformed). Can be used to redirect unauthenticated users to specific page or pages. Called with `reason` as first argument, which can be one of `MISSING_CREDENTIALS`, `MISSING_REFRESH_TOKEN`, `MALFORMED_CREDENTIALS`, `INVALID_SIGNATURE`, `INVALID_CREDENTIALS`.  See [handleInvalidToken](/docs/errors#handleinvalidtoken) to read description of each reason.                                                                                                                                        |
| handleError        | Optional | `(error: AuthError) => Promise<NextResponse>` By default returns `NextResponse.next()`                                                          | Receives an unhandled error that happened during authentication and should resolve with NextResponse. By default, in case of unhandled error during authentication, the library just allows application to render. This allows you to customize error handling. See [handleError](/docs/errors#handleerror) to read about possible errors |
| debug           | Optional | `boolean` By default `false`                                                                                                                 | Provides helpful logs than can help understand authentication flow and debug issues |
